content/about/index.md, before:

---
title: "About me"
date: 2012-03-05 12:53
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
---

![Me](/images/avatar.webp#floatleft) I'm a _Hands on_ seasoned Technical Manager
with a strong expertise both in mobile applications and backend services
development. In the 90s, I pioneered the French media Web with Libération, Le
Monde and France Télévisions.

I started building my expertise in mobile applications in 2001, well before the
rise of the iPhone and Android platforms. First with embedded navigation and
next with mobile imaging, I managed to get my hands dirty with virtually every
phone platform, from handset vendors proprietary ones to iOS and Android through
Windows Mobile, J2ME, Symbian, Doja and even Brew.

On the server side, I followed the state of the art technologies as they
matured, starting from basic CGI up to GRPC and Websockets, through Perl, PHP,
JSP/J2EE, ASP, Struts, Spring, .Net, Rails, Django, NestJS, GraphQL... I mounted
servers on racks but was more than happy to build virtual infrastructures with
code when it became possible.

I had the chance to work in startups, medium sized enterprises as well as in
fortune 500 companies in utilities, media and high tech. I eventually served as
VP Engineering, but never stopped programming (and enjoying it).

Entrepreneur, Team builder and technical mentor, I Love to build teams and make
things happen.

Commit message:

✨  Update site configuration and author details
- Added author information (name, email, and LinkedIn link) to params.toml.
- Updated header title in params.toml.
- Modified social media links to reflect current platforms.
- Enhanced the 'About Me' section with updated content and formatting.
- Corrected various typos and improved readability in multiple posts.
- Added a PowerShell script for setting up pre-commit hooks.
- Updated various code snippets and examples for clarity and accuracy.
- Updated theme submodule to the latest commit.

content/about/index.md, after:

---
title: 'About me'
date: 2025-07-30
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
---

 <div id="meimg">
     <img src="/images/avatar.webp" alt="Me"/>
</div>

I'm a _hands-on_ technical leader with deep expertise in mobile apps, web
front-end and backend services. Back in the 90s, I helped pioneer the French
media web with Libération, Le Monde, and France Télévisions.

Got into mobile development in 2001, way before iPhones were cool. Started with
embedded navigation and mobile imaging, then got my hands dirty with pretty much
every platform out there—from proprietary handset OSes to iOS and Android, plus
all the fun stuff like Windows Mobile, J2ME, Symbian, Doja, and even Qualcomm's
Brew.

On the web frontend side, I've seen it all evolve from static HTML to today's
reactive frameworks, going through the whole templating era—JSP, PHP, ASP,
Django templates, and finally landing on React, Angular, Vue and the modern
JavaScript ecosystem.

On the server side, I've ridden the wave from basic CGI to modern GRPC and
WebSockets, picking up everything along the way: Perl, PHP, J2EE, Rails, Django,
FastAPI, NestJS, GraphQL... You name it. I've literally mounted servers in racks
_and_ built cloud infrastructure with code. Deployed on all the major
clouds—AWS, Azure and GCP and french ones OVHCloud (OpenStack) and Scaleway.

I've worked everywhere from startups to Fortune 500s in utilities, media, and
tech. I eventually served as VP Engineering and CTO but never stopped coding
(because honestly, it's still fun).

Entrepreneur, Team builder and technical mentor, I Love to cultivate software
ecosystems and make things happen.
